# Analyzing Public Perception and Filtering Misinformation of JUUL on Twitter: A Natural Language Processing Approach

Abstract: 225 words

## ABSTRACT

  JUUL, the leading electronic cigarette brand in the United States, contains toxic metals that cause neurodevelopmental harm and delivers nicotine at levels comparable to traditional cigarettes. Studies have shown that social media may be perpetuating JUUL misconceptions among adolescents. This study scraped 9 million JUUL-related tweets from Twitter, a young-adult-centered platform, to investigate public perception towards JUUL using natural language processing. Tweet sentiment, emotion, and topic were classified using the Valence Aware Dictionary for Sentiment Reasoning, Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, and Latent Dirichlet Allocation, respectively. Structural virality scores were used to analyze the dynamics of JUUL information dissemination. Overall, positive perceptions of JUUL were more prevalent on Twitter, suggesting that JUUL may have successfully created a positive image of their product among Twitter users. Marketing, JUUL flavors, social appeal, echo chambers, lack of central authorities, and unimplemented Tobacco 21 legislation were found to be potential contributors to this phenomenon. Significant changes in tweet patterns were observed during headline events such as the EVALI outbreak in August 2019. This study elucidates factors affecting positive sentiment and tweet dissemination dynamics and will guide policymakers in implementing more effective preventive and quitting strategies. A browser plugin was developed to filter tweets with misleading JUUL information from users’ feeds and provide credible sources of information and can be easily integrated into social media platforms to impose corrective actions.
